---
layout: note
title: Lectures
image: Lectures.png
color: '#0F3'
tags: [info]
---

I really enjoy giving lectures, talks and workshops. Here is a list of the ones I have already prepared, contact me for booking and more information. All lectures can be given in either Swedish or English.

## Gameplay Design Workshop

We play the classroom version of my board game [A Series of Interesting Choices](/interestingchoices) which is tailored for practicing game design skills &mdash; both practical and theoretical.

2 h

## How I Tell Interactive Stories

A lecture about what makes the storytelling of Else Heart.Break() work. What I set out to do with the game and what I learned from it.

1 h

## Where Do Game Mechanics Come From?

A theoretical framework for looking at the game design process. What's the motivation behind game different types of game mechanics? This question gives insight into the choices made for various games, both classic ones and my own.

2 h

## Crafting Experiences in Unity

A series of workshops on how to make things using the game creation tool Unity. Aimed towards beginners, no prior experience is required.

1 – 5 occasions, 3 h each

## Designing Slice & Dice

A participatory lecture where I take the audience through my mental process of designing a 2-player card game.

1 h

## The Creation of Clairvoyance

A lecture about the asynchrounous computer board game Clairvoyance. I talk both about the design process and the actual production of the game.

1 h

## The Technology of Else Heartbreak

A look behind the scenes of Else Heartbreak, focuses on architecture and advanced programming techniques in C# and Unity.

45 min – 1 h

## Three Games I’ve Made (together with some friends)

A lecture about Blueberry Garden, Kometen and Shot Shot Shoot where I talk about lessons learned and my journey as an independent game designer.

45 min – 1 h
