---
layout: note
title: Shodan before 40?
image: Shodan.jpg
color: '#FFC'
tags: [blog, article]
---

*The illustration is a part of the woodcut 'Raikō shitennō to
tsuchigumo' by Utagawa Kuninaga.*

Earlier this week I turned 38 years old. Not the most exciting
birthday, if you ask me. And in many ways it passed by in a quite
unremarkable fashion – taking the kids to school, working on my
games. Still, this birthday had an additional meaning to me, something
that gave it a certain significance in my mind:

*"Only two years left."*

No, this has nothing to do with the expected length of my life (I
hope). Rather, what I want to write about is a bet I made with myself
a couple of years ago...

[Go](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_(game)) is an ancient game
from China. I learned about it from a book when I was around 14, but
it wasn't until I started [university](https://www.his.se/dataspel)
that I met other people who played, some of them were even very good.
That inspired me to become a lot more serious with the game. I started
playing online on Go-servers, read books about strategy, study old
masters, and so on.

For those unware, people who play Go usually keep track of their
[rank](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_ranks_and_ratings) using a
system similar to the ones used in various martial arts. You start at
30 *kyu*, and work your way downwards to 1 kyu. Knowing your rank is very
useful, because it also tells you what advantage (or 'handicap') the
weaker player should get to make for an even game. For example, between
two players of rank 10 kyu and 14 kyu there's a difference of four, so
the weaker player should start with four stones on the board –
effectively four free moves. This is called being "four stones
stronger".

When you play online, the server keeps track of your rank and modifies
it based on wins and losses. This works very much like
[Elo](https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elo-rating) on Chess servers and
in other competitive games. When you play casually against others, you
often state the rank you believe that you have – to find a suitable
opponent at the club, or just to get a feel for how deep someones
understanding of the game is.

So the rank starts at 30 and goes downwards... but what happens when
you reach 1 kyu, you might ask? That's when the ranking scale switches
to something called 'dan' and start counting up instead. So someone
that is one stone stronger than 1 kyu is 1 dan, then 2 dan, 3 dan, and
so on all the way up to 9 dan. Having the rank 1 dan is also called
*shodan*, which translates to something like "first rank".

This is quite an interesting name, because without any context it kind
of sounds like the rank you'd start with, as a beginner. That mirrors
the thinking in for example Karate, where one could for example say
something like "Shodan is the true beginning of Karate". In other
words, it isn't until you've reached dan level that you actually start
playing the game *for real*.

Now, I'm not entirely sure about this sentiment. A good game is
ideally fun even when you're not that experienced, and Go is a very
good game indeed. Still, there's a common conception among players
that you want to reach 1 dan at some point. At the very least it's a
good goal to have, something to strive for.

So how long does it take to reach shodan? Some people achieve it
within a year after they start playing. Others, like me, haven't
reached it yet. A few years ago this started to bother me properly. I
realized that I have played a game (that I love) for about two
decades, and I was still threading water.

I decided to give myself a deadline; I wanted to reach shodan before I
turned 40. This felt like a realistic goal. At the time I was maybe 5
kyu and felt that I was improving, although slowly. I tried to
practice more, but life has a way of getting in ones way. I started to
feel anxious about playing, the fear of losing was strong. At some
point I decided that the key to improving is to play a lot more
games. A problem with Go is that a game can be quite long. To get more
plays in I started to play quick games online. This was a terrible
idea, I ran out of thinking time a lot and the stress made me play
really badly. I started losing against people with much lower ranks,
which made my own rank decrease rapidly. It was not a great feeling.
