# Announcements

Hi! Today I'm announcing two things:

# My return to full-time indie game development

For the last three years I've been working for a startup called
[coherence](https://coherence.io), creating a toolkit for multiplayer
games. It has been a lot of fun, and I've learned a lot about
networking and how to make online games from some amazing people. But
while making tools for others is certainly very enjoyable, my true
passion is to work on my own game designs. So back to being an indie
game developer it is!

# A new label for digital board games

Historically, the games I've released spans a pretty wide range; from
experimental narrative "experiences" to hard-core 2-player
brawlers. To make my output as a game developer a bit more organized
and easier to understand, I've decided to create a 'label' for some of
the new games I'm planning to release. This label is for work that
straddles the line between physical and digital games. Those will be
computer games that tries to bring a lot of what I find appealing with
board games into the digital realm. In short, that will mean quite
deep and strategic games with lots of player interaction. My goal is
to build a community around this label, and to develop its games in an
open way with a lot of feedback from that community.

The name of the label is 'Verde' which is inspired by [Vinho Verde]
(delicious). Hopefully the games I make will have the same freshness
and vigor as the wine!

For other kinds of projects, e.g. narrative games or art pieces, I
will not use any label. Regarding my latest project [Ord](), it is
still work in progress. Given the amount of time it would take to
finish, I'll not focus on it for now.
