---
layout: note
title: Shodan Before 40?
image: shodan.jpg
color: '#000'
tags: [note]
---

I just turned 38, which (as I'm sure you'd agree) is a pretty
unremarkable age. Inbetween taking care of my kids and working on new
games, I'd even say it's the kind of thing that easily gets a bit
neglected. But there is one thing I have been thinking about in
anticipation of this birthday – a kind of "bet" with myself that I
came up with a couple of years ago...

The thing is, I've been playing the
[Go](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_(game)) quite seriously since
I was 18, or so. As a kid I used to read any book I could find about
board games, so I actually did learn the game a few years earlier, but
it wasn't until I started [university](https://www.his.se/dataspel)
that I met other people who played. Some of them were even very good!
That inspired me to become a lot more serious with the game. I started
playing online on Go-servers, read books about strategy, and so on.

For those unware, anyone even a little serious about Go also keeps
track of their *rank*. You start at 30 kyu, and work your way
downwards to 1. The rank is very useful, because it also tells you
what advantage (called *handicap*) the weaker player should get to
play an even game. For example, between two players of rank 10 kyu and
12 kyu there's a difference of two, so the weaker player should start
with two stones on the board – effectively two free moves. This is
called being "two stones stronger".

When you play online, the server keeps track of your rank and modifies
it based on wins and losses. This works very much like
[Elo](https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elo-rating) on Chess servers and
in other competitive games. When you play casually against others, you
often state the rank you believe that you are, to find a suitable
opponent at the club, or just to get a feel for how advanced someones
understanding of the game is.
